Trail Mix :
Distributed Marketing from Salesforce makes it simple for brands
to deliver consistent experiences across 
corporate marketing and local partners networks.


set up (drip campaigns) to follow-up on activities in Community Cloud
Set up (triggers in Journey Builder) for commerce activities like making a purchase or abandoning a cart.
launch a customer into a (Journey) from a case creation in Service Cloud.

create templated, on-brand, customer journeys that advisors, owners, and partners can personalize and send themselves.

real-time information on system performance and security.  -> Trust.marketingcloud.com

personal identifiable information (PII)–for example, customer ID, email

Use and track your progress with SMART (specific, measurable, attainable, realistic, and timely) objectives.


Email studio:

set email as default login : userName->cloud preference -> default login preference -> email.

A/B testing to see what content or parameters (emails, subject lines,preheaders,send dates/times, from names, content blocks)(6)

Admin tab -> account information ,security , physical mail in email footer 

Setup : Platform tools : feature settings : email studio

From Address Management:
Importing multiple addresses is ideal for accounts that use AMPscript in Sender Profiles to create dynamic From addresses in email sends

Send Classifications : 
parameters in central location and reuse those parameters
eg : sender profile, delivery profile, and CAN-SPAM classification.

Reply Mail Management (RMM):
RMM can process the reply automatically, if appropriate, or forward the message if it requires personal review. 
part help fro ISP is needed to Setup

URL Expiration:
when expired and where to redirect


Settings > Company Settings > account settings:
default timezone and culture code : default CST and en-US

Physical Address: is must needed for CAN--SPAM

Authenticated Domains:
confirm the purchase of Sender Authentication Package and additional Private Domains
verified as sendable domains and display as authenticated domains.

giving users access to Email Studio? 
Roles
Permissions

With permissions, your choices are: Allow  , deny  , not set(same as deny)

Roles, on the other hand, are a set of either predefined or custom permissions.

can apply both role ad permission.

how to apply roles -> user screen > manage roles , edit roles -> select roles and save.

domain verification ? 
purchase a Sender Authentication Package (SAP) or a Private Domain,
Marketing Cloud automatically authenticates the Email Reply Address (or Account Default) during provisioning.

cannot send emails from email addresses with the status (verify, pending, or not verified)

 OMM begins bundling the emails in batches of 500 and sending them to the subscribers' inboxes.

CAN - SPAM : 

imposes stricter requirements on Commercial email than on Transactional email

commerical email meeting criteria: 
1.subject line should represent the email content.
2.identify Sender in header info
3.identify as advertisement 
4.include physical mail address.
5.give unsubsribe link , in a single page.
6. respect the unsubsribe , process it within 10 days and its should be working for atlest 30 days.

 transactional mail creteria -> identify the sender in the header information.

 transactional message dont respect unsubsribe, we can still send transaction mail

 can have send classification for transaction and commercial email and associate with them respectively .

 while creating transaction send classification we can respect unsubscribe if we want , or we can have multiple 
 transaction send classification.

 How OMM send email 
 1.analyse the email 
 dont create email, only prepares .email(template or html)  subscribers (list,group,dataextension) , personal or dynamic contnet
 2.build email structure
 head , body, footer -> get subject line , body content ,amp script(get images) 
 3.analyse subsribers 
 run content agaist subscribers , get content for each subscribers . its a placeholder 
 4.build and send email
 bundle into batch of 500 and send.

 Marketing email strategies : 

 subject line -> keep it short to 50 chars or less, infuse symbols for brand loyalty use a/b testing to find effective.

 A/B Testing Possibilities: 
    Front-loading the brand name
    Front-loading keywords
    Length
    Styles -> emojis
    Personalization
    Calls to action	

never keep RE in subject line , or blank value in Personalization place (use default like "valued customer")

preheader -> limit to 100 characters ,catch . can have short summary or call to action.

CALL TO Action :  (UBA-CPLV)
URGENT 
BREIF(5 words)
ACTION-ORIENTED (begin with verb -> download , save )
CLEAR AND PREDICTABLE 
LIMITED AND VISIBLE (have 1 or 2 CTA )

three types of unsubscribes.
Global - they unsubscribe from every email sent from Marketing Cloud. 
If you can't determine why a certain subscriber didn't receive your email, they may be on the global unsubscribe list.

Master - master, or account-level, unsubscribe, customers choose to unsubscribe from emails sent by a given company

List :  you’re subscribed to the company Cloud Kicks’ monthly newsletter and weekly specials emails.
You like the monthly newsletter, but you no longer want to receive the weekly specials.
you unsubscribe from just the weekly specials list.


Email deliverability : 
ISP show only from address , so keep org name in from address and subject line.

Bounch rate should be less than 20 %  else ip will be blocked

purge old , inactive , unopened emails. 

spam filters : 
logic -> content , keywords based , email volume , consumer complaints 
also score basics -> parameters (content , volume, response and sender)

inbound sales call are the most effective to get new subscribers 

Single Opt-In Versus Double Opt-In
single opt in -> enter keyword and sign up
double opt in -> enter keyword and email -> open email to confirm it.(avoid typo)

Dont force user to subscriber -> give incentives, prominent sign up link , simple form.
Welcome programs can create some of the highest open and click rates of any email messaging.

Important message should in text , if image got blocked , keep it top above the fold. so no need to scroll.

General Data Privacy Regulation (GDPR).
business collects, stores, or uses personal information about European residents, 
then the GDPR can have a profound impact on your business processes.

key terms
Data Subject - person 
Personal Data - data about person
Sensitive Personal Data - race, religion,politics , sex  , health , biometric
Processing - done with personal data
Controller - institution who get data from person eg: bank
Processor - process data based on controller instruction eg : Salesforce
Pseudonymous Data - eg :ipaddress  . needed additional information to tie to person
Anonymous Data = cant be connected to person

Basics of data processing : 
organizations must obtain the consent of a data subject
data subjects must agree via a clear statement or affirmative action.
dont process beyound consent thats necessary for providing sevice.

Compliance obligations:
data cotroller report data breach to data protection authority before 72 hours.

Data protection officer:
appoint DP office if org process sensitive data on latger scale or monitor data subject regularly.

Enforcement: 
fine upto 20 million or 4 percent of annual global revenue.

Use of processors:
Data controllers must have written agreements with data processors

Profiling:
certain restrictions on the automated processing of personal data (profiling)

cross-border transfers of personal data : 
adherence to association codes of conduct or 
data protection certification programs approved by regulators can also be acceptable transfer mechanisms.

one stop shop : 
if company span multiple countries 
work with a lead supervisory authority for cross-border data protection issues.


Data subject rights: 
full right of data.

Fairness and Transparency principle of GDPR 
process personal data lawfully, fairly, and in a transparent manner.
describe such tracking in a privacy notice

Purpose Limitation principle of GDPR 
collect personal data only for specified, explicit, and legitimate purposes
dont process further than the purpose.

Data Minimization principle of GDPR 
collect only personal data that’s adequate, relevant, and limited to what’s necessary for the intended purpose.

Accuracy principle of GDPR 
Personal data must be accurate and  kept up to date.

Data Deletion principle of GDPR 
Personal data must be kept only for as long as it’s needed to fulfill the original purpose of collection.

Security principle of GDPR 
use tech and org level security to protect personal data.

the use of 
data segregation, 
encryption, 
pseudonymization, 
and anonymization is recommended, and in some cases required, to help protect personal data.

Encryption measure 
law encourages encryption as an effective way to help ensure the security and confidentiality of personal data.

Pseudonymization measure
use pseudonymization as risk-based measure to protect data security and the rights of individuals. 
pseudonymization may constitute a sufficient safeguard against risks from profiling.
also  enable organizations the use of data beyond the original purpose.

Anonymization measure
the data does not constitute personal data under the GDPR.
It must be impossible for any individual to be identified from the data

Accountability principle of GDPR:
data controller is responsible handlig personal data in compliance with GDPR
keeping a record of processing activities and conducting privacy impact assessments.
1. appoint Data protection officer

methods to operationalize privacy principles into their culture.
1.Privacy by Design
when planing a new processing activity or develop or implement a new product, service, or feature,

2. Privacy by Default
use the most “privacy friendly” default settings when collecting, processing, or storing data.
shortest possible retention period.
the least amount of processing

3.Data Protection Impact Assessments
Analyses of new processing activities to identify and address privacy risks.

Individual Rights principle of GDPR:

Data Access: Data subjects have the right to confirm to controller in processig personal data.
Right to Object: object at any time to the processing of their personal data, especially in marketing.
Data Rectification: request  controller correct or complete personal data
Restriction of Processing: request that a controller stop access to and modification of their personal data
Data Portability: ask a controller to provide their personal data in a structured forat PDF
Right to Erasure: Also known as “the right to be forgotten : delete or remove their personal data 

US Privacy law :
Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA)
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) issued the Privacy, Security, and Breach Notification Rules to protect 
protected health information, or PHI

HHS also created the Office of Civil Rights and granted it the authority and responsibility to enforce these rules,

Consumer reporting agency (CRA):
create and maintains consuer report for 3rd party

Consumer report:
report given by CRA to establish the creditworthiness of indiviual to get loan

Investigative consumer report:
report obtained by interviewing  indiviual acquintace about his chatacter.

User:
purchase report from CRA

Furnisher:
gives CRA credit history information to be used in consuer report.

Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA):
CRA and USER obey FCRA -> ensure correct , accurate information also securely protect them.
user get report only for specific purpose.
CRA -> gives notice to User about permissble purpose of reports.
if user decide negative -> notify CRA and customer(include CRA details , right to access info and dispute accuracy)

Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA)
the Disposal Rule:
user should delete data in a way , so no misuse of data happens.

Red Flags Rule:
develop rules that mandate the detection, prevention, and mitigation of identity theft. 
financial institutions -> implement a written program to detect and respond to potential identity theft red flags.


Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA):
imposed on financial institutions with regard to the use and disclosure of their 
customers’ nonpublic, personally identifiable financial information.

what can be a  nonpublic, personally identifiable financial information ? 
given by customer to financial institution
obtained by finanacial institution
result of transaction

GLBA - Financial Privacy Rule
give initial and annual privacy notices to their customers about info colletion , protection and sharing and opt out way.

New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulations:NYDFS
protect growing threat of cyber-attacks. 
company must have a have a chief information security officer and other personnel who develop and manage a cybersecurity program

The California Online Privacy Protection Act (CalOPPA):
website collect california resident data u must aide by this law.
the posted privacy policy must list the categories of information the website collects, 
the third parties who may receive the information,
and the process (if any) for the visitor to review and amend the information. 

The Shine the Light Act:
regulating the sharing of individuals’ personal information for marketing purposes.
for-profit companies must disclose any personal information they share with third parties, and who those third parties are if request
Businesses are exempt if they have a public privacy policy outlining rights and opt in opt out procedure.

The Song-Beverly Credit Card Act
retailers and other businesses cannot ask a customer for personal identification information during a credit card transaction. 

CCPA :
rights
we can access, opt out of sales of information (not opt out of collecting inforation)[Do Not Sell My Personal Information-link in sites]
right to notice , right to delete.
right of equal services and pricing

Businesses must respond to rights requests within 45 days and 
disclose and deliver the appropriate information and take the necessary action requested by the Consumer. 

salesforce has DPA (data processing addendum) signed with customer , that ake them coply with CCPA .

