
Produts : 

Messaging and Automation : 
    Email Studio
    Mobile Studio
    Jouney Builder
    Interaction Studio

    Build,Deply,Manage (BDM) -> communication at scale, with your customers.

Data and Advertising : 
    Data Studio
    Advertise Studio
    Audience Studio

    combine data from source -> targeted marketing -> create custom audience. (CTA)

Social Media : 
    Social Studio - (LEP)

    Listen to digial conversation
    Engage in MSS(marketing,sales,service)
    Publish info to customer for discuss about your brand.

Measurement and Analytics:
    Dataroma
    Google Analytics 360

    Marketing efforts result analysis , cross platform reporting and insights.

Email Studio :

Fact : customer spend 11 sec reading the email.
Customer need : personalised message at right time and moment.

Email studio -> help personalize msg and drive 1:1 engagement with customer.
we can segment , build , send & track -> promotional and transaction message ( 2 types of msg).

Features: 

Mobile optimized email templates.
Based on engagement , create AI powered segment to target subscriber.
personalised msg -> (dynamic content and AI recommendation).
unify transaction and promotional message on same platform.
scale and automate all transation with customer.

Use cases : 

Personalization : 
    indiviual customer (data points + previous engagement) = weekly promotional email.
    data -> first name , prefered product , AI recommendation -> all automated to millions.

surprise and delight : 
    happy birthday email to customer with 20 off coupon.

Effciency and effectiveness : 
    pre built template -> customize -> drag and drop custom built content block.
    streamline design and build workflow.

Improved internal communication:
    mass communication to all employedd about event or change.

Mobile studio:

Fact : 70% of mobile customer found your business online , act within 1 hour.

Mobile studio -> drive immediate and relevant customer engagement.
marketers manage engagement by email,Push,advertise,sms from mobile studion.

Tools:(messaging) 
Mobile Connect -> SMS and MMS.
Mobile Push    -> Push message (automated and interactive).
Group Connect  -> 1:1 conversation on group messaging apps(LINE). (rich customer data).

features : 
Deliver time sensitive message -> alert and remainder.
target on the go customer -> location based push marketing.
drive mobile app engagement to customer coming back.
use personalized data on CRM -> to have single view of customer.
create and edit mobile message in content builder , no need to leave journey builder.

Use case : 
    Design , Execute and Optimize campaign -(DEO -C )
customer engagement : 
    DEO -C to cross-sell , upsell, incentivize , or inform customer on mobile device.
    build and automate mobile text campaign:
        custom template for outbound msg, text-response , MMS.
        Personalise each msg by location , demographics , preference . (LDP to personalize).

customer acquisition : 
    DEO - C to get new customer via mobile app, website .eg: email opt in , sms info capture.

customer retention : 
    DEO - C to use mobile app. reengage lapsed custom -> loyalty sign up .
    enter or exit target physical space -> geo-fenced push notification for sales or events.
    Bluetooth beacon -> high proximity geo - targeted messages.

Time senstive transaction message : to acquire , engage and retain . eg: shipping remainders, alerts.

journey Builder : 

Customer journey is long , split into multiple treks.
select most impact part of journey as starting point for customer.

question to ask before before business goals.
new customer ? 
sign up for newsletter ? 
encourage repeat visit ? additional puchase ? 
increase adoption to mobile app ? 

when most success ? -> focus on customer outcome.

Most success areas : 
acquisition and boarding:
    welcome
    first purchase , thank you 
    refer a friend.

engagement : 
    influence next purchase
    download mobile app 
    complete the profile
    join loyalty program
    finish survey

loyalty and retention :
    birthday remainder
    cart remainders 
    win back lapsed customer.

build customer jouney in jouney builder -> drag and drop.
decision split -> join rewards program? send rewards coupon to new user.

Interaction Studio
customer need : business need to engage in personalized way , in right context.
provide personalization at scale across every customer interaction,
including digital interactions, offline moments, and assisted engagements.

features:
every owned channel -> capture insights - > manage real time customer interaction.
coordinate engagement by connecting online and offline momenets.
Leverage machine learning to decide, prioritize and deliver (DPD) relevant product in real time.

use case : 
target and manage user through customer lifecycle.
user took action -> inform online and offline channels.
monitor anonymous behaviour and use recognition -> connect CRM profile to anonymous Profile.
anonymous visior + customer -> indept behaviour info -> true intent and interest.
journey context -> inform other offer delivering systems. so receive consistent message.


Advertising Studio:
features :

use CRM data to reach prospects on social media.
if purchasing habit is like high value customer ->  new prospect.
advertise + email -> max reach of audience .
reconnect with user on prefered channel.
improve ROI , using google ad strategy.,suppress irrelevent audience.
pardot + sales cloud ->     connect  - > Advertising with lead scoring , email nurture.
create facebook ad campaing from journey builder , no need of team,
facebook -> lead - > salesforce .
sync customer rec and digital channel.

use cases : 
Brand awarness
new customer
onboard
engange 
reengage
upsell , cross sell.
optimize ad by eliminating irrelevant customer.

Audience studio : 
Data mangement platform 
marketers -> capture and analayse -> customer data.
unify data from multiple source.
group indiviual user to audience segments eg: fitnuess enthusiast group .

Use case : 
Personalization : 
gather data -> 360 degree view of customer to target Personalized marketing .
eg: arline ad for travel in business or leisure.

Gain insights:
data + audience studio - > to know he will attend music festival or sport events.

Data studio : 
Data sharing platform for brand , publishers,marketers.

brand and publisher -> share data for more revenue.
marketers -> expand reach and get more customers.

Use case : 
pusblisher own data and maketers user it gain more customers.
so data studio is secure environment controlled by data owners.
so publisher get paid for the controlled access to data.
makerters connect with more audience.

which organize data for marketers and provides instructions based on insights generated by the platform ? 
Audience studio


