distributed marketing ? 
diff cloud connection with marketing cloud ? 
create what kind of journey ? 
RTInfo and security ? 
PII ? 
SMART ? 
how to setup email studio as default ?
A/B Testing parameters ? 
what are the things in admin tab ? 
from address management ? 
send classification ? 
RMM ? 
what is the default timezone in MC ? and time difference ? 
how to give user access to Marketing cloud ?
what is authenticated domains ? 
domain verification ? 
steps involded in OMM ? 
OMM how it will send ? 
CAN - SPAM compliance criteria ? 
should transaction email honour opt-out ? 
how a subjct line should be ? 
what are A/B  testing possibilities ? 
how a subject line should not be ? 
how a preheader  should ? 
what are call to action (CTA) ? 
what are 3 types of unsubscribers ? 
what can we do to improve email deliverability ? 
what is bounce rate ? 
which email to purge ? 
spam filters ? how it works ? 
Single Opt-In Versus Double Opt-In?
most effective way to get new subscribers?
how to make user signup ? 
which has highest open and click rates of any email messaging ?  
how and where important message should be placed ? 
what is GDPR ?
key terms of GDPR ? 
what are the basics of data processing in GDPR ? 
what are compliance obligation in GDPR ? 
data protection office in GDPR ? 
enforcment in GDPR?
use of processors in GDPR ? 
profilig in GDPR ? 
cross-border transfers of personal data in GDPR ?
data subject rights in GDPR ? 
Fairness and Transparency principle of GDPR ?
Purpose Limitation principle of GDPR ?
Data Minimization principle of GDPR?
Accuracy principle of GDPR ?
Data Deletion principle of GDPR ?
Security principle of GDPR?.
Accountability principle of GDPR?
Individual Rights principle of GDPR?
HIPAA?
what is Consumer reporting agency (CRA)?
what is Consumer report?
who is user in financial service privacy law context ? 
who is Furnisher in financial service privacy law context ? 
Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA) ? 
Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act (FACTA)?
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (GLBA)?
New York Department of Financial Services Cybersecurity Regulations:NYDFS?
CalOPPA ?
The Shine the Light Act?
The Song-Beverly Credit Card Act?
CCPA rights ? 
within how any days we should respond to customer data access request ? 
what is salesforce DPA ? 

// to memorize email deliverability best practice

what is a reference block ?
benefits of dynamic content ? 
how to drive productivity with scheduled automation ? 
what are the variety of triggered automations ? 
What type of advertising campaign can help you save money ?
explain some automated campaigns for customers ?
advantage of Push Notifications ? 
advantage of Outbound text messages?

lookalike audience on faceook ?
how to get more email subscribers?

what are email design best practice ? 