read question and answer carefully.

CAN SPAM : 
CAN SPAM act of 2003 -> email is legal or illegal
1. Accurently identify the sender in header information .
2. subject line accuretly represnt the email content.
3. identify the message as advertisement , unless user didn't opt in as subscriber.
4. include physical mailing address.
5. provide unsubscribe link. but unsubscribe should not have login or multiple page.
6. process unsubscribe request within 10 days, operation at 30 days after mailing.

dont sent to person without prior business relationship .
opt in (COI) process is used so we know sending to user who gave permission.

improve email deliverability : 

1. all subscriber has given u permission.
    double opt in . submit button and click link in email.
2. bounce rate greater than 20% , need to deal with it. Data should be fresh, updated.
eg: user left , email no longer valid , so email bounce.

3.add organization name to subject line , so user recognize us .

4. recognize from name and address.

5.delete old and inactive address.
    bounces -> hard,soft,block

6. manage frequency and relevancy of content.(weekly monthly digest).

7. authenticate your mail.
Domain Key , Sender Ids , Sender Policy framework (SPF) (X)

subscriber acquisition methods : 
1.signup on websites.
    form , pop ups
    single opt in or double opt in.

2. socialmedia .
3. mobile opt in 
4.stores
5.customer serivce.
6.tradeshows/events.

best practice to interact with subscribes : 
dont force subscribe 
signup form prominent.
opt in form -> shirt.

Incentives : 
avoid overrich Incentives
deliver incentive to email directly.

onboarding : 
pre welcome user
welcome email.

email frequency : 
set expetations
convery message when image is blocked. 
content above the fold,eg: main content should be seen without need to scroll.

use personal message:
good default content , use personalization and dynamic content.

value proposition : clear 

Email Message design : 

design 600pixel by 3 inches. 
make link look like links
minimize image , copy and text,spam words. 
easy unsubscribe.
personalize subject and content .

max time to see email -> 3 seconds.

Mobile : 
Name (25)
subject(35)
preHeader (85)

have clear call to action in any environment.

responsive design and mobile aware.
single layout -> work all environment.

responsive deisng : 2 or more version.
optimized for particular screen resolution .

tesitng tools : 
1.A/B Testing : 

2.content detective : 
mirror spam filters
find potential problem and solution
check content in english
dont scan html code

3.validation : 
check for unsubscribe link , physical address
check field syntax.
Proper AMP script and content launguage

4.send preview : 

5. test preview :
5 receipients 

Content builder : 
store ,visualize ,manage

share folder and contents -> read it.

all marketing cloud has a master -> all subscriber list

if no primary key , only we can overwrite.

